(#242) Adds RDP Docs to QDE in Azure (#243)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/quick-deployment/azure/rdp.md

    | Assignment          | Dynamic                          |
1. Click `Save`.

On returning to the network interface overview, a `Public IP address` should now be visible. Make a note of the value.

Now we will add a rule to the NSG. If you do not already know your current public IP address, you can find out by visiting [ipconfig.me](http://ifconfig.me/ip).

1. Navigate back to your Resource Group in the Azure Portal
1. Select the `Network security group`, and open the `Inbound security rules` panel.

    ![Create IP Address](/assets/images/quickdeployazure/Rdp-NsgRuleAddition.png)

1. Click `Add` and fill in at least the following details:  

    | Key                 | Value                            |
    | ------------------- | -------------------------------- |
    | Service             | RDP                              |
    | Source              | IP Addresses                     |
    | Source IP addresses | _Your current public IP address_ |
    | Name                | RDPAccess _(or similar)_         |
1. Click `Add` at the bottom of the panel

You should now be able to try [Connecting to the VM](xref:qdeazurerdp#connecting-to-the-vm)

## PowerShell

> For the sake of this section, we will assume that you have installed a recent copy of the [Az modules](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az) and your session is authenticated with an account that has access to your Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment. We also assume that you haven't made significant modifications to the deployed resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of this section, we will assume that you have installed a an up-to-date version of [Az modules](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az) and your session is authenticated with an account that has access to your Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment. We also assume that you haven't made significant modifications to the deployed resources.
```

> You will follow the same steps covered in the Azure Portal directions, above. You can run the [entire script](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/JPRuskin/9c2f2d31f09bc2df9b8ae88b7f1fffdb/raw/ConnectToAzVm.ps1) or parse and run each section separately (below).

Reviewer: Can we either remove the link to the gist in your GitHub account or add it to the Chocolatey account?

If we have the script in the docs, people can copy and paste them together to run the code?

Author: I've actually got a version of this script going into a directory on the repository itself at some point (as part of a QOL update), though the repository isn't public. I'll investigate popping it onto Chocolatey's Gists, though I don't know if it would potentially be cleaned up in a year.

Reviewer: Can we check the criteria of the Chocolatey gist cleanup? Does it cleanup private gists? If not, we could use one of those for this?

Reviewer 2: The gist clean-up job currently looks at **all** gists.

If we want to only do public gists going forward, it appears to be a case of changing the oath from `/gists` to `/gists/public`.

I'll put an issue up on that repo to discuss.

To begin, we need to create a Public IP address for the VM.

> 

Reviewer: I thought I'd put this here.

Can we have some comments for the PowerShell code as to what it is doing?

```PowerShell

> if (-not $ResourceGroupName) {$ResourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'}

Reviewer: Can we have some consistency with the if's? We are using multiple lines below in the code so we should do so here I feel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if (-not $resourceGroupName) {
    $resourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'
}
```

# There should only be one network interface in the resource group.

> $mgtNic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name *-nic

Reviewer: Can the user _reasonably_ name the nic something else? I don't think they can, but I want to make sure.

Author: There's no way for them to change the suffix without _really_ messing about, so the `*-nic` filter should be alright.

# If there is no public IP address assigned, we should create one.

> if (-not $mgtNic.IpConfigurations[0].PublicIpAddress.Id) {

Reviewer: If no nic's are returned from the code above, this code will throw an exception? Can we catch that and output some nice error message?

>     if (-not ($mgtPublicIp = Get-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name 'tempip')) {
>         $ResourceGroup = Get-AzResourceGroup -Name $ResourceGroupName
>         $mgtPublicIp = New-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name 'tempip' -Location $ResourceGroup.Location -AllocationMethod Dynamic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (-not ($mgtPublicIp = Get-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name 'tempip')) {
        $resourceGroup = Get-AzResourceGroup -Name $resourceGroupName
        $mgtPublicIp = New-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name 'tempip' -Location $resourceGroup.Location -AllocationMethod Dynamic
```

    }
    $mgtNic.IpConfigurations[0].PublicIpAddress = $mgtPublicIp
    $mgtNic = Set-AzNetworkInterface -NetworkInterface $mgtNic
}
```

> We should then create a NSG rule to allow traffic from our current IP to the VM over the port used for RDP (3389). If you want to create the rule for another IP address, you should change the value of `$IPAddress` before running the `Add` and `Set` commands.

Reviewer: Can we name the variables consistently (ie. camelCase)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should then create a NSG rule to allow traffic from our current IP to the VM over the port used for RDP (3389). If you want to create the rule for another IP address, you should change the value of `$ipAddress` before running the `Add` and `Set` commands.
```

```PowerShell

> if (-not $ResourceGroupName) {$ResourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'}

Reviewer: Multiple lines for an if statement for consistency?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if (-not $resourceGroupName) {
    $resourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'
}
```

> $IPAddress = (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "http://ifconfig.me/ip").Content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ipAddress = (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "http://ifconfig.me/ip").Content
```

> $NSG = Get-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$nsg = Get-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName
```

> $RDPRule = @{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$rdpRule = @{
```

    Name                     = "$($env:UserName)-RDP"
    Direction                = 'Inbound'

>     Priority                 = (($NSG.SecurityRules.Priority | Sort-Object)[0] - 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Priority                 = (($nsg.SecurityRules.Priority | Sort-Object)[0] - 1)
```

    Access                   = 'Allow'

>     SourceAddressPrefix      = $IPAddress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SourceAddressPrefix      = $ipAddress
```

    SourcePortRange          = '*'
    DestinationAddressPrefix = '*'
    DestinationPortRange     = '3389'
    Protocol                 = 'TCP'
}

> $null = Add-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig @RDPRule -NetworkSecurityGroup $NSG
> $null = Set-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -NetworkSecurityGroup $NSG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$null = Add-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig @rdpRule -NetworkSecurityGroup $nsg
$null = Set-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -NetworkSecurityGroup $nsg
```

```

> Finally, you can find the IP address to connect to by running something similar to the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can find the IP address to connect to by running the following code:
```

```PowerShell

> if (-not $ResourceGroupName) {$ResourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'}
> if (-not $mgtNic) {$mgtNic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name *-nic}
> 
> (Get-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name $mgtNic.IpConfigurations.PublicIpAddress.Id.Split('/')[-1]).IpAddress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if (-not $resourceGroupName) {
    $resourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'
}

if (-not $mgtNic) {
    $mgtNic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name *-nic
}

(Get-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $mgtNic.IpConfigurations.PublicIpAddress.Id.Split('/')[-1]).IpAddress
```

```

## Connecting to the VM

> :memo: **NOTE**

> > It can sometimes take a few minutes for the NSG to update rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It can sometimes take a few minutes for the Network Security Group rules to be updated.
```

> Finally, [connect to the VM](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/connect-logon) using the IP address you procured in the previous steps, using [the credential from the Key Vault](xref:qdeazure#accessing-services).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, use the IP address that we found in the previous steps to [connect to the VM](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/connect-logon) using [the credential from the Azure Key Vault](xref:qdeazure#accessing-services).
```

---
Order: 28
xref: qdeazurerdp
Title: RDP Access
Description: A guide to accessing RDP in the Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment
---

## Summary

> Even after deploying a Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment, you may wish to link the machine to an existing Active Directory domain, install monitoring software, or otherwise tinker with configuration. This page will show you how to gain access to the primary VM within the environment via Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After deploying a Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment, you may wish to link the machine to an existing Active Directory domain, install monitoring software, or otherwise tinker with configuration. This page will show you how to gain access to the primary VM within the environment via Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).
```

We will assume you know [how to retrieve passwords from your environment](xref:qdeazure#accessing-services). In order to connect, you need the VM username and password (stored in the deployed Key Vault).

## Azure Portal

> We need to add a publicly accessible IP address to the VM, and add an exception to the Network Security Group (NSG) to allow connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We need to add a publicly accessible IP address to the VM, and add a rule to the Network Security Group (NSG) to allow connections.
```

Feel free to take or leave this suggestion, I think **rule** may be more commonly understood vs. **exception**?

First we will add the IP address:

1. In the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com), navigate to the Resource Group containing your deployed Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment.
1. Select the VM's network interface (which should be called `choco-vm-nic` by default), and open the `IP configurations` panel.

    ![Open IP Configurations](/assets/images/quickdeployazure/Rdp-IpConfiguration.png)

1. Select the IP configuration (`ipconfig1` by default), and under `Public IP address settings` click `Associate`.

    ![Create IP Address](/assets/images/quickdeployazure/Rdp-IpCreation.png)

1. Click `Create new`, and create a basic IP address. For future examples, I have named this IP `choco-vm-ip`.

    | Key                 | Value                            |
    | ------------------- | -------------------------------- |
    | Name                | choco-vm-ip _(or similar)_       |
    | Sku                 | Basic                            |
    | Assignment          | Dynamic                          |
1. Click `Save`.

On returning to the network interface overview, a `Public IP address` should now be visible. Make a note of the value.

> Now we will add an exception to the NSG. If you do not already know your current public IP address, you can find out by visiting [ipconfig.me](http://ifconfig.me/ip).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we will add a rule to the NSG. If you do not already know your current public IP address, you can find out by visiting [ipconfig.me](http://ifconfig.me/ip).
```

1. Navigate back to your Resource Group in the Azure Portal
1. Select the `Network security group`, and open the `Inbound security rules` panel.

    ![Create IP Address](/assets/images/quickdeployazure/Rdp-NsgRuleAddition.png)

1. Click `Add` and fill in at least the following details:  

    | Key                 | Value                            |
    | ------------------- | -------------------------------- |
    | Service             | RDP                              |
    | Source              | IP Addresses                     |
    | Source IP addresses | _Your current public IP address_ |
    | Name                | RDPAccess _(or similar)_         |
1. Click `Add` at the bottom of the panel

You should now be able to try [Connecting to the VM](xref:qdeazurerdp#connecting-to-the-vm)

## PowerShell

> For the sake of this section, we will assume that you have installed a recent copy of the Az modules and your session is authenticated with an account that has access to your Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment. We also assume that you haven't made significant modifications to the deployed resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the sake of this section, we will assume that you have installed a recent copy of the [Az modules](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az) and your session is authenticated with an account that has access to your Chocolatey for Business QDE Azure Environment. We also assume that you haven't made significant modifications to the deployed resources.
```

Helpful link to the PowerShell Gallery, may save a Google.

You will follow the same steps covered in the Azure Portal directions, above. You can run the [entire script](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/JPRuskin/9c2f2d31f09bc2df9b8ae88b7f1fffdb/raw/ConnectToAzVm.ps1) or parse and run each section separately (below).

To begin, we need to create a Public IP address for the VM.

```PowerShell
if (-not $ResourceGroupName) {$ResourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'}

# There should only be one network interface in the resource group.
$mgtNic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name *-nic

# If there is no public IP address assigned, we should create one.
if (-not $mgtNic.IpConfigurations[0].PublicIpAddress.Id) {
    if (-not ($mgtPublicIp = Get-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name 'tempip')) {
        $ResourceGroup = Get-AzResourceGroup -Name $ResourceGroupName
        $mgtPublicIp = New-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name 'tempip' -Location $ResourceGroup.Location -AllocationMethod Dynamic
    }
    $mgtNic.IpConfigurations[0].PublicIpAddress = $mgtPublicIp
    $mgtNic = Set-AzNetworkInterface -NetworkInterface $mgtNic
}
```

> We should then create a NSG rule to allow traffic from our current IP to the VM over the port used for RDP (3389). If you want to create the exception for another IP address, you should change the value of `$IPAddress` before running the `Add` and `Set` commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We should then create a NSG rule to allow traffic from our current IP to the VM over the port used for RDP (3389). If you want to create the rule for another IP address, you should change the value of `$IPAddress` before running the `Add` and `Set` commands.
```

```PowerShell
if (-not $ResourceGroupName) {$ResourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'}
$IPAddress = (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "http://ifconfig.me/ip").Content

$NSG = Get-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName

$RDPRule = @{
    Name                     = "$($env:UserName)-RDP"
    Direction                = 'Inbound'
    Priority                 = (($NSG.SecurityRules.Priority | Sort-Object)[0] - 1)
    Access                   = 'Allow'
    SourceAddressPrefix      = $IPAddress
    SourcePortRange          = '*'
    DestinationAddressPrefix = '*'
    DestinationPortRange     = '3389'
    Protocol                 = 'TCP'
}
$null = Add-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig @RDPRule -NetworkSecurityGroup $NSG
$null = Set-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -NetworkSecurityGroup $NSG
```

> Finally, you can find the FQDN / IP address to connect to by running something similar to the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, you can find the IP address to connect to by running something similar to the following code:
```

This should only ever be an IP, right?

```PowerShell
if (-not $ResourceGroupName) {$ResourceGroupName = Read-Host 'Enter the ResourceGroupName'}
if (-not $mgtNic) {$mgtNic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name *-nic}

$mgtPublicIp = Get-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -Name $mgtNic.IpConfigurations.PublicIpAddress.Id.Split('/')[-1]
$mgtPublicIp.DnsSettings.Fqdn
```

## Connecting to the VM

> :memo: **NOTE**
> It can sometimes take a few minutes for the NSG to update rules.

> Finally, connect to the VM using the FQDN or IP address you procured in the previous steps, using [the credential from the Key Vault](xref:qdeazure#accessing-services).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, connect to the VM using the IP address you procured in the previous steps, using [the credential from the Key Vault](xref:qdeazure#accessing-services).
```

Reviewer 2: Would it also help to link to some docs here about _how_ to connect?

Azure has this: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/connect-logon
